<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<gtr:projectOverview xmlns:gtr="http://gtr.ukri.org/api"><gtr:projectComposition><gtr:collaborations/><gtr:leadResearchOrganisation url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/organisation/3EAE04CA-9D62-4483-B9C4-F91AD9F4C5A9"><gtr:id>3EAE04CA-9D62-4483-B9C4-F91AD9F4C5A9</gtr:id><gtr:name>University of Oxford</gtr:name><gtr:department>Environmental Change Institute SoGE</gtr:department><gtr:address><gtr:line1>University Chest</gtr:line1><gtr:line2>Wellington Square</gtr:line2><gtr:line4>Oxford</gtr:line4><gtr:postCode>OX1 2JD</gtr:postCode><gtr:region>South East</gtr:region><gtr:country>United Kingdom</gtr:country></gtr:address><gtr:typeInd>RO</gtr:typeInd></gtr:leadResearchOrganisation><gtr:organisationRoles><gtr:organisationRole url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/organisation/3EAE04CA-9D62-4483-B9C4-F91AD9F4C5A9"><gtr:id>3EAE04CA-9D62-4483-B9C4-F91AD9F4C5A9</gtr:id><gtr:name>University of Oxford</gtr:name><gtr:address><gtr:line1>University Chest</gtr:line1><gtr:line2>Wellington Square</gtr:line2><gtr:line4>Oxford</gtr:line4><gtr:postCode>OX1 2JD</gtr:postCode><gtr:region>South East</gtr:region><gtr:country>United Kingdom</gtr:country></gtr:address><gtr:roles><gtr:role><gtr:name>LEAD_RO</gtr:name></gtr:role></gtr:roles></gtr:organisationRole></gtr:organisationRoles><gtr:personRoles><gtr:personRole url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/person/87375C3E-B225-4673-97F3-11C566ED0D4F"><gtr:id>87375C3E-B225-4673-97F3-11C566ED0D4F</gtr:id><gtr:firstName>Jim</gtr:firstName><gtr:otherNames>William</gtr:otherNames><gtr:surname>Hall</gtr:surname><gtr:orcidId>0000-0002-2024-9191</gtr:orcidId><gtr:roles><gtr:role><gtr:name>PRINCIPAL_INVESTIGATOR</gtr:name></gtr:role></gtr:roles></gtr:personRole></gtr:personRoles><gtr:project url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/projects?ref=NE%2FJ017302%2F1"><gtr:id>F07D9406-51FF-4BBF-9D5C-AB174BC7C9F8</gtr:id><gtr:title>The Consortium on Risk in the Environment: Diagnostics, Integration, Benchmarking, Learning and Elicitation (CREDIBLE)</gtr:title><gtr:status>Closed</gtr:status><gtr:grantCategory>Research Grant</gtr:grantCategory><gtr:grantReference>NE/J017302/1</gtr:grantReference><gtr:abstractText>Natural hazard events claim thousands of lives every year, and financial 
losses amount to billions of dollars. The risk of losing wealth through 
natural hazard events is now increasing at a rate that exceeds the rate 
of wealth creation. Therefore natural hazards risk managers have the 
potential, through well-informed actions, to significantly reduce social 
impacts and to conserve economic assets. By extension, environmental 
science, through informing the risk manager's actions, can leverage 
research investment in the low millions into recurring social and 
economic benefits measured in billions. However, to be truly effective 
in this role, environmental science must explicitly recognize the 
presence and implications of uncertainty in risk assessment.

Uncertainty is ubiquitous in natural hazards, arising both from the 
inherent unpredictability of the hazard events themselves, and from the 
complex way in which these events interact with their environment, and 
with people. It is also very complicated, with structure in space and 
time (e.g. the clustering of storms), measurements that are sparse 
especially for large-magnitude events, and losses that are typically 
highly non-linear functions of hazard magnitude. The tendency among 
natural hazard scientists and risk managers (eg actuaries in insurance 
companies) is to assess the 'simple' uncertainty explicitly, and assign 
the rest to a large margin for error.

The first objective of our project is to introduce statistical 
techniques that allow some of the uncertainty to be moved out of the 
margin for error and back into an explicit representation, which will 
substantially improve the transparency and defensibility of uncertainty 
and risk assessment. Obvious candidates for this are hazard models 
fitted on a catalogue of previous events (for which we can introduce 
uncertainty about model parameters, and about the model class), and 
limitations in the model of the 'footprint' of the hazard on the 
environment, and the losses that follow from a hazard event.

The second objective is to develop methods that allow us to assess less 
quantifiable aspects of uncertainty, such as probabilities attached to 
future scenarios (eg greenhouse gas emissions scenarios, or population 
growth projections). The third objective is to improve the visualisation 
and communication of uncertainty and risk, in order to promote a shared 
ownership of choices between actions, and close the gap between the 
intention to act (eg, to build a levee, or relocate a group of people 
living in a high-risk zone) and the completion of the act. In natural 
hazards this gap can be large, because the cost of the act is high, many 
people may be affected, and the act may take several years to complete.

Ultimately, everyone benefits from better risk management for natural 
hazards, although the nature of the benefits will depend on location. In 
the UK, for example, the primary hazard is flooding, and this is an area 
of particular uncertainty, as rainfall and coastal storm surges are 
likely to be affected by changes in the climate. A second hazard is 
drought, leading to heat stress and water shortages. Our project has 
explicit strands on inland flooding, wind-storms, and droughts. Other 
parts of the world are more affected by volcanoes or by earthquakes, and 
our project has strands on volcanic ash, debris flows as found in 
volcanic eruptions (ie lahars; avalanches are similar), and earthquakes. 
In the future, new hazards might emerge, such as the effect of space 
weather on communications. A key part of our project is to develop 
generic methods that work across hazards, both current and emerging.</gtr:abstractText><gtr:potentialImpactText>The uncertainty framework developed by the CREDIBLE project will bring 
new approaches into the field of natural hazards and adapt them to the 
specific needs of this field. It will create consistency and greater 
scientific rigour regarding the estimation of uncertainty in natural 
hazard risk assessment. Thus enhancing capacity, knowledge and skills of 
stakeholders from private and public sectors, and improve societal 
security through better and more consistently informed decision-making 
under uncertainty.

Beneficiaries of the proposed research include the whole range of 
sectors involved in risk assessment of natural hazards, which is 
reflected in our list of project partners. These included the insurance 
and finance sector (Willis Ltd., Lighthill Risk Network, Catlin 
Underwriting Agencies Ltd), consultants (HR Wallingford, JBA Ltd, RMS), 
and the UK government agencies (Environment Agency, Met Office, DEFRA).

The insurance industry will benefit from the more accurate pricing of 
contracts. As we explain elsewhere in this proposal, currently many 
uncertainties in natural hazards are acknowledged but not explicitly 
quantified, and enter into insurance premiums as a loading for risk, 
which is effectively a margin for error on top of the expected loss. Our 
intention in CREDIBLE is to move some of these uncertainties out of the 
margin for error and into explicit assessment, thus improving the 
pricing of risk premiums, and, ultimately, the economic performance of 
UK insurance companies connected to our project partners. We will also 
introduce standard statistical tools for improving efficiency in Monte 
Carlo simulations, and for quantifying variability in Monte Carlo 
estimates, which will be immediately taken up by CAT modelling companies 
(notably our project partner RMS), and feed through into regulation, for 
example through quantifying variability in the estimate of the 99.5th 
percentile, as required by the EU Solvency 2 directive.

Consultants and agencies will benefit from more powerful tools for 
assessing uncertainty, and for propagating it into the choice between 
actions. Our environmental consulting project partners (JBA Consulting 
and HR Wallingford) focus primarily on flooding, which is also a major 
concern for our agency project partners (the Environment Agency, the UK 
Met Office, and DEFRA). In flooding it is acknowledged that providing 
information about uncertainties is crucial, and this has been reflected 
in UK postcode-level flood maps produced by the EA (although technically 
these maps convey frequencies rather than probabilities). CREDIBLE's 
focus on (i) explicitly assessing more of the uncertainty, (ii) 
providing additional tools to represent less-quantifiable uncertainties, 
(iii) considering explicitly the link between potential actions, 
scenarios, uncertainties and risks, and (iv) visualisation and 
communication, will provide a more transparent and defensible assessment 
of different actions and consequences. This will promote a shared 
ownership of some of the very contentious issues that can arise in 
natural hazards, such as developments on flood-plains, or groups of 
people who choose to live in the high risk zones of active volcanoes.

This final aspect is an absolutely crucial part of CREDIBLE, and of our 
intention to have an enduring effect on natural hazards risk management, 
and the quality of life of people who are affected by natural hazards. 
Natural hazards interventions (eg building a levee or a barrage, 
changing building regulations, relocating a group of people) are almost 
always contentious, costly, and take several years. There is a large 
gap, therefore, between the intention to act, and the completion of the 
action. CREDIBLE can reduce the size of this gap by promoting a shared 
sense of ownership, of the science and of the decision.</gtr:potentialImpactText><gtr:fund><gtr:end>2016-04-30</gtr:end><gtr:funder url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/organisation/8A03ED41-E67D-4F4A-B5DD-AAFB272B6471"><gtr:id>8A03ED41-E67D-4F4A-B5DD-AAFB272B6471</gtr:id><gtr:name>NERC</gtr:name></gtr:funder><gtr:start>2012-10-01</gtr:start><gtr:type>INCOME_ACTUAL</gtr:type><gtr:valuePounds>322445</gtr:valuePounds></gtr:fund><gtr:output><gtr:artisticAndCreativeProductOutputs/><gtr:collaborationOutputs/><gtr:disseminationOutputs/><gtr:exploitationOutputs/><gtr:furtherFundingOutputs/><gtr:impactSummaryOutputs><gtr:impactSummaryOutput><gtr:description>The methodologies for drought risk analysis and water resources planning have been taken up in the water resources management plan of Thames Water and are being considered by Southern Water. The methodologies have also attracted attention from water resources planners and modellers around the world.</gtr:description><gtr:firstYearOfImpact>2015</gtr:firstYearOfImpact><gtr:id>B6A9AD4F-DA5B-42C3-966D-E661002C8416</gtr:id><gtr:impactTypes><gtr:impactType>Societal,Economic,Policy &amp; public services</gtr:impactType></gtr:impactTypes><gtr:outcomeId>56e040e0f3bb36.76173986</gtr:outcomeId><gtr:sector>Environment</gtr:sector></gtr:impactSummaryOutput></gtr:impactSummaryOutputs><gtr:intellectualPropertyOutputs/><gtr:keyFindingsOutput><gtr:description>The CREDIBLE project developed new methodology for managing risk and uncertainty for natural hazards. The research at the University of Oxford has:

1. Explored methodologies for making decisions about natural hazard management. The work is summarised in a major review paper for Annual Reviews in Environment and Resources, currently in press. 

2. Developing new statistical methods for analysing the risks of natural hazards. In particular it has developed innovative methodology for modelling the variability and uncertainty in river flows, so enable better management of the risks of floods and droughts. 

3. Carried out a case study of uncertainty and decision analysis for droughts and water resources management.</gtr:description><gtr:exploitationPathways>The results will be used in planning of water resources and management of droughts.</gtr:exploitationPathways><gtr:id>A3DC1408-B546-49C2-A48D-AE3D0C4BF9C1</gtr:id><gtr:outcomeId>54649d7cac0a69.43739869</gtr:outcomeId><gtr:sectors><gtr:sector>Environment</gtr:sector></gtr:sectors><gtr:url>http://www.credible.bris.ac.uk/</gtr:url></gtr:keyFindingsOutput><gtr:otherResearchOutputs/><gtr:policyInfluenceOutputs/><gtr:productOutputs/><gtr:researchDatabaseAndModelOutputs><gtr:researchDatabaseAndModelOutput><gtr:description>This model takes current and future modelled hydrology data from the future flows hydrology database, and uses them to approximate a) river flow time series and b) input s to reservoirs. In conjunction with data from water resource management plans on groundwater and spring sources, reservoir capacity and storage levels associated with levels of service agreements these have been used to develop simplified models of the UK's 130 geographic water resource zones which provide a maximum yield or 'deployable output' for current and future conditions under 11 climate scenarios at 2050 and 2100.</gtr:description><gtr:id>3192847B-D4DA-4601-BEBC-02573DB5E619</gtr:id><gtr:impact>The database has only just been compiled so there are no impacts yet</gtr:impact><gtr:outcomeId>54649ca40d8157.36825841</gtr:outcomeId><gtr:providedToOthers>false</gtr:providedToOthers><gtr:title>UK Water Resource Assessment (Deployable Output) Model</gtr:title><gtr:type>Computer model/algorithm</gtr:type></gtr:researchDatabaseAndModelOutput><gtr:researchDatabaseAndModelOutput><gtr:description>As part of the UK Water Resource Assessment (Deployable Output) Model we created an up-to-date representation of the UK's 130 geographic water resource zones, based on a 5km grid. This improves on publicly available records which we found accurate to the previous set of water resource zones</gtr:description><gtr:id>0439876C-59E5-421C-8129-19C546DE2361</gtr:id><gtr:impact>The database has only just been compiled so there are no impacts yet</gtr:impact><gtr:outcomeId>54649e92d73c87.04619039</gtr:outcomeId><gtr:providedToOthers>false</gtr:providedToOthers><gtr:title>UK Water Resource Zone GIS dataset</gtr:title><gtr:type>Database/Collection of data</gtr:type></gtr:researchDatabaseAndModelOutput><gtr:researchDatabaseAndModelOutput><gtr:description>A set of possible and preferred strategies for increasing supply/decreasing demand from Water Resource Management Plans, including Capex, Opex and equivalent yield generated.</gtr:description><gtr:id>B82100D1-D8A8-4212-AB78-62A175CE6246</gtr:id><gtr:impact>The database has only just been compiled so there are no impacts yet</gtr:impact><gtr:outcomeId>54649ecc4ef032.51410770</gtr:outcomeId><gtr:providedToOthers>false</gtr:providedToOthers><gtr:title>Water Resources Strategic Options</gtr:title><gtr:type>Database/Collection of data</gtr:type></gtr:researchDatabaseAndModelOutput><gtr:researchDatabaseAndModelOutput><gtr:description>Data generated by the Water Resource Assessment (Deployable Output) Model. This lists water resource zones and gives modelled values for deployable output from each zone at 2010, 2050 and 2100 under the 11 runs of the Future Flows hydrology database. These amalgamate groundwater, reservoir and river abstractions for each zone.</gtr:description><gtr:id>E373B36A-3EA0-403B-8D5B-FE4631B92090</gtr:id><gtr:impact>The database has only just been compiled so there are no impacts yet</gtr:impact><gtr:outcomeId>54649e37357e43.88252754</gtr:outcomeId><gtr:providedToOthers>false</gtr:providedToOthers><gtr:title>Water Resource Zone Deployable Outputs to 2100 under 11 Future Flows Scenarios</gtr:title><gtr:type>Database/Collection of data</gtr:type></gtr:researchDatabaseAndModelOutput></gtr:researchDatabaseAndModelOutputs><gtr:researchMaterialOutputs/><gtr:softwareAndTechnicalProductOutputs/><gtr:spinOutOutputs/></gtr:output><gtr:publications><gtr:publication><gtr:id>D5FD4209-9690-46AC-8839-B17AF574ED82</gtr:id><gtr:title>Epistemic uncertainties and natural hazard risk assessment - Part 1: A review of the issues</gtr:title><gtr:parentPublicationTitle>Natural Hazards and Earth System Sciences Discussions</gtr:parentPublicationTitle><gtr:authors><gtr:author url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/person/c14151f38fff2209dc660ec2e8ec6372"><gtr:id>c14151f38fff2209dc660ec2e8ec6372</gtr:id><gtr:otherNames>Beven K</gtr:otherNames></gtr:author></gtr:authors><gtr:date>2015-01-01</gtr:date><gtr:outcomeId>56e03d175d2af5.49835483</gtr:outcomeId></gtr:publication><gtr:publication><gtr:id>138C39D2-99BF-4366-A904-05D469A915A8</gtr:id><gtr:title>Epistemic uncertainties and natural hazard risk assessment. 2. What should constitute good practice?</gtr:title><gtr:parentPublicationTitle>Natural Hazards and Earth System Sciences Discussions</gtr:parentPublicationTitle><gtr:authors><gtr:author url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/person/c14151f38fff2209dc660ec2e8ec6372"><gtr:id>c14151f38fff2209dc660ec2e8ec6372</gtr:id><gtr:otherNames>Beven K</gtr:otherNames></gtr:author></gtr:authors><gtr:date>2017-01-01</gtr:date><gtr:outcomeId>5aa298bacbbc38.61777656</gtr:outcomeId></gtr:publication><gtr:publication><gtr:id>2650AEED-E72B-413E-A6CF-3C5918F94940</gtr:id><gtr:title>Decision Analysis for Management of Natural Hazards</gtr:title><gtr:parentPublicationTitle>Annual Review of Environment and Resources</gtr:parentPublicationTitle><gtr:authors><gtr:author url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/person/32afddb9dc5a184032aa466f0ad03f7e"><gtr:id>32afddb9dc5a184032aa466f0ad03f7e</gtr:id><gtr:otherNames>Simpson M</gtr:otherNames></gtr:author></gtr:authors><gtr:date>2016-01-01</gtr:date><gtr:outcomeId>58b059ac6ee0a2.97812105</gtr:outcomeId></gtr:publication><gtr:publication><gtr:id>E4458893-0A25-4DAF-BB5B-C182D7D14E9D</gtr:id><gtr:title>Epistemic uncertainties and natural hazard risk assessment. 1. A review of different natural hazard areas</gtr:title><gtr:parentPublicationTitle>Natural Hazards and Earth System Sciences Discussions</gtr:parentPublicationTitle><gtr:authors><gtr:author url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/person/c14151f38fff2209dc660ec2e8ec6372"><gtr:id>c14151f38fff2209dc660ec2e8ec6372</gtr:id><gtr:otherNames>Beven K</gtr:otherNames></gtr:author></gtr:authors><gtr:date>2017-01-01</gtr:date><gtr:outcomeId>5aa297e5d709c5.24871694</gtr:outcomeId></gtr:publication><gtr:publication><gtr:id>BAE69B9F-1DF7-4FAA-BC71-BC4BB19701FF</gtr:id><gtr:title>Assessing water resource system vulnerability to unprecedented hydrological drought using copulas to characterize drought duration and deficit.</gtr:title><gtr:parentPublicationTitle>Water resources research</gtr:parentPublicationTitle><gtr:authors><gtr:author url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/person/d50d2188834e31d40ebd3c5b7922f07e"><gtr:id>d50d2188834e31d40ebd3c5b7922f07e</gtr:id><gtr:otherNames>Borgomeo E</gtr:otherNames></gtr:author></gtr:authors><gtr:date>2015-01-01</gtr:date><gtr:issn>0043-1397</gtr:issn><gtr:outcomeId>56e03c3b76eab6.30591851</gtr:outcomeId></gtr:publication><gtr:publication><gtr:id>820A07BE-46F3-49CD-A5E4-F63C7EF0E47F</gtr:id><gtr:title>Numerical rivers: A synthetic streamflow generator for water resources vulnerability assessments</gtr:title><gtr:parentPublicationTitle>Water Resources Research</gtr:parentPublicationTitle><gtr:authors><gtr:author url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/person/d50d2188834e31d40ebd3c5b7922f07e"><gtr:id>d50d2188834e31d40ebd3c5b7922f07e</gtr:id><gtr:otherNames>Borgomeo E</gtr:otherNames></gtr:author></gtr:authors><gtr:date>2015-01-01</gtr:date><gtr:outcomeId>5675fb5f2f21d</gtr:outcomeId></gtr:publication><gtr:publication><gtr:id>BC6A8242-0CA4-4BD2-8F73-60A8562562AF</gtr:id><gtr:title>Epistemic uncertainties and natural hazard risk assessment ? Part 2: Different natural hazard areas</gtr:title><gtr:parentPublicationTitle>Natural Hazards and Earth System Sciences Discussions</gtr:parentPublicationTitle><gtr:authors><gtr:author url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/person/c14151f38fff2209dc660ec2e8ec6372"><gtr:id>c14151f38fff2209dc660ec2e8ec6372</gtr:id><gtr:otherNames>Beven K</gtr:otherNames></gtr:author></gtr:authors><gtr:date>2016-01-01</gtr:date><gtr:outcomeId>58b05a1daa42a7.75652131</gtr:outcomeId></gtr:publication><gtr:publication><gtr:id>F5C7ADF3-5A04-4FF6-84F9-4287FC4ACE5A</gtr:id><gtr:title>Risk-based water resources planning: Incorporating probabilistic nonstationary climate uncertainties</gtr:title><gtr:parentPublicationTitle>Water Resources Research</gtr:parentPublicationTitle><gtr:authors><gtr:author url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/person/d50d2188834e31d40ebd3c5b7922f07e"><gtr:id>d50d2188834e31d40ebd3c5b7922f07e</gtr:id><gtr:otherNames>Borgomeo E</gtr:otherNames></gtr:author></gtr:authors><gtr:date>2014-01-01</gtr:date><gtr:outcomeId>54649ae7e77413.15165163</gtr:outcomeId></gtr:publication></gtr:publications><gtr:identifiers><gtr:identifier type="RCUK">NE/J017302/1</gtr:identifier></gtr:identifiers><gtr:healthCategories/><gtr:researchActivities/><gtr:researchSubjects><gtr:researchSubject><gtr:id>C087E953-30F3-4968-B0F3-D48A5998A2B4</gtr:id><gtr:percentage>20</gtr:percentage><gtr:text>Civil eng. &amp; built environment</gtr:text></gtr:researchSubject><gtr:researchSubject><gtr:id>EE4457DB-92A3-44EA-8D5F-77013CC107E0</gtr:id><gtr:percentage>10</gtr:percentage><gtr:text>Climate &amp; Climate Change</gtr:text></gtr:researchSubject><gtr:researchSubject><gtr:id>AEB7EC61-1574-4583-8B00-BD32275F29A6</gtr:id><gtr:percentage>10</gtr:percentage><gtr:text>Complexity Science</gtr:text></gtr:researchSubject><gtr:researchSubject><gtr:id>E844174D-6A1C-4D2D-8F24-57698F7DA353</gtr:id><gtr:percentage>20</gtr:percentage><gtr:text>Environmental planning</gtr:text></gtr:researchSubject><gtr:researchSubject><gtr:id>6E910789-6B8D-4B73-B5B0-F3156942B558</gtr:id><gtr:percentage>40</gtr:percentage><gtr:text>Geosciences</gtr:text></gtr:researchSubject></gtr:researchSubjects><gtr:researchTopics><gtr:researchTopic><gtr:id>EE4457DB-92A3-44EA-8D5F-77013CC107E0</gtr:id><gtr:percentage>10</gtr:percentage><gtr:text>Climate &amp; Climate Change</gtr:text></gtr:researchTopic><gtr:researchTopic><gtr:id>44BF93F5-71F4-42EF-A39B-8A0F09C7DDD1</gtr:id><gtr:percentage>20</gtr:percentage><gtr:text>Coastal &amp; Waterway Engineering</gtr:text></gtr:researchTopic><gtr:researchTopic><gtr:id>AEB7EC61-1574-4583-8B00-BD32275F29A6</gtr:id><gtr:percentage>10</gtr:percentage><gtr:text>Complexity Science</gtr:text></gtr:researchTopic><gtr:researchTopic><gtr:id>E844174D-6A1C-4D2D-8F24-57698F7DA353</gtr:id><gtr:percentage>20</gtr:percentage><gtr:text>Environmental planning</gtr:text></gtr:researchTopic><gtr:researchTopic><gtr:id>BE94F009-26A1-4E5B-B0B3-722A355F282C</gtr:id><gtr:percentage>40</gtr:percentage><gtr:text>Geohazards</gtr:text></gtr:researchTopic></gtr:researchTopics><gtr:rcukProgrammes/></gtr:project></gtr:projectComposition></gtr:projectOverview>