<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<gtr:projectOverview xmlns:gtr="http://gtr.ukri.org/api"><gtr:projectComposition><gtr:collaborations/><gtr:leadResearchOrganisation url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/organisation/2DB7ED73-8E89-457A-A395-FAC12F929C1A"><gtr:id>2DB7ED73-8E89-457A-A395-FAC12F929C1A</gtr:id><gtr:name>University of Edinburgh</gtr:name><gtr:department>Sch of Physics and Astronomy</gtr:department><gtr:address><gtr:line1>Old College</gtr:line1><gtr:line2>South Bridge</gtr:line2><gtr:line3>Mayfield Road</gtr:line3><gtr:line4>Edinburgh</gtr:line4><gtr:postCode>EH8 9YL</gtr:postCode><gtr:region>Scotland</gtr:region><gtr:country>United Kingdom</gtr:country></gtr:address><gtr:typeInd>RO</gtr:typeInd></gtr:leadResearchOrganisation><gtr:organisationRoles><gtr:organisationRole url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/organisation/2DB7ED73-8E89-457A-A395-FAC12F929C1A"><gtr:id>2DB7ED73-8E89-457A-A395-FAC12F929C1A</gtr:id><gtr:name>University of Edinburgh</gtr:name><gtr:address><gtr:line1>Old College</gtr:line1><gtr:line2>South Bridge</gtr:line2><gtr:line3>Mayfield Road</gtr:line3><gtr:line4>Edinburgh</gtr:line4><gtr:postCode>EH8 9YL</gtr:postCode><gtr:region>Scotland</gtr:region><gtr:country>United Kingdom</gtr:country></gtr:address><gtr:roles><gtr:role><gtr:name>LEAD_RO</gtr:name></gtr:role></gtr:roles></gtr:organisationRole></gtr:organisationRoles><gtr:personRoles><gtr:personRole url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/person/9989799B-6B4E-4310-A040-ED46B649CACC"><gtr:id>9989799B-6B4E-4310-A040-ED46B649CACC</gtr:id><gtr:firstName>Andrew</gtr:firstName><gtr:surname>Washbrook</gtr:surname><gtr:roles><gtr:role><gtr:name>RESEARCHER</gtr:name></gtr:role></gtr:roles></gtr:personRole><gtr:personRole url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/person/09556D1D-6C9F-475A-8F4E-2B70A2A5D8D1"><gtr:id>09556D1D-6C9F-475A-8F4E-2B70A2A5D8D1</gtr:id><gtr:firstName>Peter</gtr:firstName><gtr:surname>Clarke</gtr:surname><gtr:roles><gtr:role><gtr:name>PRINCIPAL_INVESTIGATOR</gtr:name></gtr:role></gtr:roles></gtr:personRole><gtr:personRole url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/person/E743EA58-3F64-48A4-8F88-61B29BCCAAC4"><gtr:id>E743EA58-3F64-48A4-8F88-61B29BCCAAC4</gtr:id><gtr:firstName>Wahid</gtr:firstName><gtr:surname>Bhimji</gtr:surname><gtr:roles><gtr:role><gtr:name>RESEARCHER</gtr:name></gtr:role></gtr:roles></gtr:personRole></gtr:personRoles><gtr:project url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/projects?ref=ST%2FM004961%2F1"><gtr:id>91578F4E-900B-4239-BAE3-5A5FDB0E893F</gtr:id><gtr:title>GridPP4+ Edinburgh one year extension for staff support</gtr:title><gtr:status>Closed</gtr:status><gtr:grantCategory>Research Grant</gtr:grantCategory><gtr:grantReference>ST/M004961/1</gtr:grantReference><gtr:abstractText>This proposal, submitted in response to the 2014 invitation from STFC, aims
to provide and operate a computing Grid for the exploitation of LHC data in
the UK. The success of the current GridPP Collaboration will be built upon,
and the UK's response to production of LHC data in the period April 2015 to
March 2016 will be to ensure that there is a sustainable infrastructure
providing &amp;quot;Computing in the LHC era&amp;quot;
We propose to operate a Grid as the main mechanism for delivering very
large-scale computational resources to the UK particle physics community.
This foundation will underpin the success and increase the discovery
potential of UK physicists. We will operate a production-quality Grid,
delivering robustness, scale and functionality. The proposal is fully
integrated with international projects and we must exploit the opportunity
to capitalise on the UK leadership already established in several areas. The
Particle Physics Grid will increasingly be integrated with national and
international initiatives.

The project will be managed across various domains and will deliver the UK's
commitment to the Worldwide LHC Computing Grid (WLCG) and ensure that
worldwide activities directly benefit the UK.
By 2015, the UK Grid infrastructure will have expanded in size to 50,000
cores, with more than 30 PetaBytes of storage. This will enable the UK to
exploit, in an internationally competitive way, the unique physics potential
of the LHC.</gtr:abstractText><gtr:potentialImpactText>GridPP's knowledge exchange activities fall into two main areas: firstly,
those aimed at other academic disciplines, and secondly, business and
industry. GridPP has a strong outreach programme to a public and academic
audience, and intends to continue this in GridPP4+. The Dissemination
Officer will organise GridPP's presence at conferences and events. This
includes booking and manning booths, arranging backdrops, material, posters,
screens, and rotas where appropriate. Examples of events that we have
attended include The British Science Festival, The Royal Society Summer
Exhibition, the British Science Association Science Communication Conference
and Meet The Scientist at the Museum of Science and Industry in Manchester.
GridPP has developed an extensive website that is central to project
communications. The Dissemination Officer will be responsible for producing
news items for the website and drafting GridPP press releases. We have had
broad coverage from these in the past, including many national newspapers
and online publications.
Additional activities will include producing GridPP material, such as
leaflets, posters, t-shirts, bags and magic cubes. We have found these very
valuable in raising GridPP's and LHC's profile at minimal cost. The
Dissemination Officer will also promote outreach training for members of the
collaboration, will identify GridPP staff who have specific expertise in
this area and will arrange occasional GridPP events, such as the Tier-1 open
day.
On KE, our initial work has proved that GridPP's technology can be of use
across a range of disciplines and sectors, and we plan to continue this work
during GridPP4+. The objectives of this program will be to improve awareness
of the technologies developed by GridPP and its partners in academia and
industry, and hence facilitate the increase in use of these technologies
within new areas.</gtr:potentialImpactText><gtr:fund><gtr:end>2016-03-31</gtr:end><gtr:funder url="http://gtr.ukri.org:80/organisation/D7F4F462-0518-4784-908A-D12633C139B3"><gtr:id>D7F4F462-0518-4784-908A-D12633C139B3</gtr:id><gtr:name>STFC</gtr:name></gtr:funder><gtr:start>2015-04-01</gtr:start><gtr:type>INCOME_ACTUAL</gtr:type><gtr:valuePounds>122946</gtr:valuePounds></gtr:fund><gtr:output><gtr:artisticAndCreativeProductOutputs/><gtr:collaborationOutputs/><gtr:disseminationOutputs/><gtr:exploitationOutputs/><gtr:furtherFundingOutputs/><gtr:impactSummaryOutputs/><gtr:intellectualPropertyOutputs/><gtr:otherResearchOutputs/><gtr:policyInfluenceOutputs/><gtr:productOutputs/><gtr:researchDatabaseAndModelOutputs/><gtr:researchMaterialOutputs/><gtr:softwareAndTechnicalProductOutputs/><gtr:spinOutOutputs/></gtr:output><gtr:publications/><gtr:identifiers><gtr:identifier type="RCUK">ST/M004961/1</gtr:identifier></gtr:identifiers><gtr:healthCategories/><gtr:researchActivities/><gtr:researchSubjects><gtr:researchSubject><gtr:id>C2898760-D7E5-4B25-A236-E7869CD74F88</gtr:id><gtr:percentage>100</gtr:percentage><gtr:text>Particle physics - experiment</gtr:text></gtr:researchSubject></gtr:researchSubjects><gtr:researchTopics><gtr:researchTopic><gtr:id>1DC69BB9-DB25-46B4-B810-741F86398414</gtr:id><gtr:percentage>30</gtr:percentage><gtr:text>B Physics/Flavour Physics</gtr:text></gtr:researchTopic><gtr:researchTopic><gtr:id>200B9B9B-68EC-4D70-B889-6BD5F4538080</gtr:id><gtr:percentage>60</gtr:percentage><gtr:text>Beyond the Standard Model</gtr:text></gtr:researchTopic><gtr:researchTopic><gtr:id>DB4948F7-4829-4191-8416-208CE0FBE9D2</gtr:id><gtr:percentage>10</gtr:percentage><gtr:text>Neutrino Physics</gtr:text></gtr:researchTopic></gtr:researchTopics><gtr:rcukProgrammes/></gtr:project></gtr:projectComposition></gtr:projectOverview>